# Dune_Sales-Analysis

## Table of Contents 
- [Introduction](#introduction).
- [Purpose](#Purpose).
- [Project Objective](#project-objective).
- [Data Preprocessing](#data-preprocessing).
- [Exploratory Data Analysis](#EDA).
- [Key_Insights](#key-insights).
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)

## Introduction
Dune is a reputable global retailer offering a diverse selection of products, including accessories, clothing and phones. With a growing presence in 14 countries and a team of over 70,000 employees, the company prides itself on providing affordable options for everyone. From fashion-forward trendsetters to multigenerational families. Dune strives to offer great quality essentials and standout styles that cater to a wide range of customers.

## Purpose of the sales analysis project
To analyse the company's sales data from the previous year and provide actionable insights and recommendations. This analysis will help identify areas of opportunity and inform future business decisions aimed at improving performance and increasing profitability.

## Project Objectives
* Utilize python libraries and tools to perform EDA on the collected sales data.
* Calculating the total cost, revenue and profit generated by the company
* Visualize the analysis results using the appropriate charts, plots, graphs, Correlation.

## Data Preprocessing
* Removing Duplicates
* Handling missing values
* Convert the data column into a pandas datetime object
* Grouping Customer age into different age group

## Exploratory Data Analysis
Ranging from Univariate, Bivariate and Multivariate. Data analysis was performed to gain insights into the relationships between features and there impact on sales. This steps helps identify patterns, correlations and potential predictive variables.

## key Insights
* Among the top 10 states, Lagos has the highest transaction while Benue has the lowest transaction.
* The percentage number of the female customer is slightly greater that the percentage number of the male customer.
* The majority of the transaction are coming from 25-40 Adult.
* From the countplot, we can see Remota has the most transaction, same with Chinazam, Feyisola and Kenny has the least.
* Accessories product generate more profit compare to the othe products.

## Conclusion
Dune sales company should invest more into the accessories product, the adult age group should be targeted and Lagos state display that they generated the highest profit.

